let's take a closer look at World
Central Kitchen the non-governmental
organization was founded in 2010 after a
major earthquake in Haiti it provides
meals to survivors of humanitarian
crisis natural disasters and people
fleeing conflict the charity partners
with local organizations to set up a
network of food trucks and emergency
kitchens to reach people in need the
group was involved in the first Maritime
delivery of humanitarian Aid to Gaza
from Cyprus in March a second shipment
is due to arrive this week let's now
speak to Yan egund who's the Secretary
General of the Norwegian Refugee Council
he's joining us on Al jazer from Oslo Mr
egund thank you very much for your time
I guess I want to get your reaction
first to this incident I imagine you and
your teams in Gaza must be extremely
worried after the killing of these Aid
workers extremely worried and and
heartbroken uh as we're mourning with
our colleagues and World Central Kitchen
a wonderful organization I saw the work
myself when I was there in gasa we we
exchanged tents for meals NC with World
Food Central uh World kitchen uh they
they are now part of a horrific
statistics there are more dead Aid
workers in gasa than in other any other
conflict worldwide the last years the
Israeli War Machine has has now killed
more a workers more nurses more doctors
uh targeted more ambulances and killed
more civilians including children than
in other any other conflict we need a
ceasefire now and we need a de
confliction system that a notification
system that works yeah well talk to us a
bit more about that notification system
because uh the world Kitchen Central
says they they communicated all their
coordinates with the
Israelis uh but they were still hit that
the team was still hit talk to us about
the conditions that your teams uh the
Norwegian Refugee Council are working
under right now in Gaza what sort of
communication do you have with the
Israelis well in war zones we always are
in contact with the parties and we tell
them transparently what we're doing
where we are working how we are working
and where we're going because this is
called de confliction which is really
the notification to the armed actors of
of movements and of presence for
humanitarian workers were
unarmed we are there to provide uh
assistance where neutral impartial and
independent uh now World Central Kitchen
had notified about this Convoy they have
declared them themselves they were
working in close coordination with the
IDF the Israeli Defense Forces when they
took the two barges of with food from
Cyprus to Gaza you have to work with the
IDF because they have they have control
over the of the area and still they were
targeted which means that this war M
machine doesn't have a functioning de
confliction system and I've been in
contact with the UN and with fellow of
uh large non-governmental organization
saying that we we need to ask Israel and
the US
to reboot the system get something that
functions in the absence of the
ceasefire the system you say is not
working Mr egland and as you've said
yourself so many Aid workers have been
killed in Gaza no one seems to be safe
in Gaza do you think perhaps that these
Aid workers and others could have been
deliberately
targeted well I I I still don't think
Israel is trying to kill as many Aid
workers as possible and it's and
Especial not with an organization that
have worked in close coordination with
them on delivering food I I think it
more complete lack of internal
information and coordination which is
very serious when you are attacking a
place with overwhelming uh military
superiority using thousands of of bumps
having all of these drones like the ones
that were hit hit our colleagues you
need to have have have a have a working
system where there is information flow
and where there is restraint there is no
restraint here or no distinction between
military and civilian targets so what
impacts do you see this um killing of
these Aid workers having on on
operations on the ground on the aid
operations on Palestinians who depend
desperately on on on this Aid and
perhaps also on your operations the
Norwegian Refugee council could could
you reconsider your operations on the
ground as a result of this uh uncertain
security
situation it it it has an immediate
effect on the operations in the north
where the fam is the
worst the uh the this was the these Co
these colleagues were returning from the
north going to Rafa where we have our
Hub where we have our Central operation
from from see we work from RAF ourselves
I think it will it it will really
paralyze operations in the north where
the needs are the greatest which means
that Israel must come clean and the
United States that is providing their
arms to this with the new system that is
working because it system as it is now
is totally broken in terms of protecting
uh Aid workers and without Aid workers
there will not be relief for the
civilian population thank you very much
Mr egland for talking to us Yan egland
is the Secretary General of the
Norwegian Refugee Council joining us
from Oso thank you very much for your
time we appreciate it